---
layout: post
title: "Final Product!"
date: 2012-04-27 10:35
comments: true
categories: 
---

<h3>Abstract</h3>

Patients undergoing physical therapy have to make frequent visits to
the physical therapist to obtain treatment. These therapy sessions
typically consist of patients repeating one movement and therapists
give feedback. To patients, these appointments are a nuisance and the
exercises are monotonous. Studies have shown that only 31% of people
comply as recommended. We propose to develop a game-based application
for the Kinect that would serve as a home-supplement for physical
therapy. It motivates patients to perform exercises prescribed by
their physical therapist and gives real-time feedback on the
correctness of their movements. In addition, it generates a final
report that summarizes their exercise statistics.

We divided the game into two parts. The first part was to use the
Kinect to determine the correctness of patientsâ€™ movements. We did
this by taking the angle measured by the Kinect and setting a
threshold on the angle individualized for the patient and the limb.We
then developed a game based an existing game <a
href="http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/view/547625">Hurdle
Turtle</a>. Our version simply has a jump key, but has different level
walls corresponding to target and reach angles for the patient. We
also provide instantaneous feedback on incorrect movements and do not
validate a jump unless the movement was proper and not too fast.

And without further ado, here's our demo video!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/t9CLL8hFmzg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>